---
x-trestle-add-props: []
  # Add or modify control properties here
  # Properties may be at the control or part level
  # Add control level properties like this:
  #   - name: ac1_new_prop
  #     value: new property value
  #
  # Add properties to a statement part like this, where "b." is the label of the target statement part
  #   - name: ac1_new_prop
  #     value: new property value
  #     smt-part: b.
  #
x-trestle-global:
  profile:
    title: IPS-SRS-001 Tailored Moderate Baseline (AC, AU, IR, CP)
    href: trestle://profiles/ips_srs_abridged/profile.json
  sort-id: ac-17
---

# ac-17 - \[Access Control\] Remote Access

## Control Statement

- \[a.\] Establish and document usage restrictions, configuration/connection requirements, and implementation guidance for each type of remote access allowed; and

- \[b.\] Authorize each type of remote access to the system prior to allowing such connections.

## Control Assessment Objective

- \[AC-17a.\]

  - \[AC-17a.[01]\] usage restrictions are established and documented for each type of remote access allowed;
  - \[AC-17a.[02]\] configuration/connection requirements are established and documented for each type of remote access allowed;
  - \[AC-17a.[03]\] implementation guidance is established and documented for each type of remote access allowed;

- \[AC-17b.\] each type of remote access to the system is authorized prior to allowing such connections.

## Control guidance

Remote access is access to organizational systems (or processes acting on behalf of users) that communicate through external networks such as the Internet. Types of remote access include dial-up, broadband, and wireless. Organizations use encrypted virtual private networks (VPNs) to enhance confidentiality and integrity for remote connections. The use of encrypted VPNs provides sufficient assurance to the organization that it can effectively treat such connections as internal networks if the cryptographic mechanisms used are implemented in accordance with applicable laws, executive orders, directives, regulations, policies, standards, and guidelines. Still, VPN connections traverse external networks, and the encrypted VPN does not enhance the availability of remote connections. VPNs with encrypted tunnels can also affect the ability to adequately monitor network communications traffic for malicious code. Remote access controls apply to systems other than public web servers or systems designed for public access. Authorization of each remote access type addresses authorization prior to allowing remote access without specifying the specific formats for such authorization. While organizations may use information exchange and system connection security agreements to manage remote access connections to other systems, such agreements are addressed as part of [CA-3](#ca-3) . Enforcing access restrictions for remote access is addressed via [AC-3](#ac-3).

______________________________________________________________________

## What is the solution and how is it implemented?

<!-- For implementation status enter one of: implemented, partial, planned, alternative, not-applicable -->

<!-- Note that the list of rules under ### Rules: is read-only and changes will not be captured after assembly to JSON -->

### This System

IPS establishes and documents usage restrictions, connection requirements, and implementation guidance for types of remote access permitted to the system. The system handles the role based access control and bastion server components and the school district provides the IdP service to validate identity. The system has two remote access types which have been authorized by the ISSO as a legitimate way to gain access.

Administrator access connects exclusively through the jump server. This path is limited to authorized system administrators. To gain access, multifactor authentication is required. The CISO gives authorization for system administrator accounts. An allow list for source IPs enforces who is able to connect. A valid SSH key is required to connect. The functions for this type of access are system maintenance, and patching.

Parents, teachers, and school administrators may also connect to the app through a TLS 1.2+ connection on a web browser. Their accounts are authorized for connection through HR for creation, then the app creates accounts on a rolling 8 hour batch job described in AC-2. For teachers and school administrators to gain access they must present multifactor authentication through the school SSO IdP. Parents may read their associated student's records. Teachers and admins may read or write to their student's grades, attendance, or disciplinary information. For medical information and special education records, teachers can read and administrators can read and write.

#### Implementation Status: implemented
