---
x-trestle-add-props: []
  # Add or modify control properties here
  # Properties may be at the control or part level
  # Add control level properties like this:
  #   - name: ac1_new_prop
  #     value: new property value
  #
  # Add properties to a statement part like this, where "b." is the label of the target statement part
  #   - name: ac1_new_prop
  #     value: new property value
  #     smt-part: b.
  #
x-trestle-global:
  profile:
    title: IPS-SRS-001 Tailored Moderate Baseline (AC, AU, IR, CP)
    href: trestle://profiles/ips_srs_abridged/profile.json
  sort-id: ac-18
---

# ac-18 - \[Access Control\] Wireless Access

## Control Statement

- \[a.\] Establish configuration requirements, connection requirements, and implementation guidance for each type of wireless access; and

- \[b.\] Authorize each type of wireless access to the system prior to allowing such connections.

## Control Assessment Objective

- \[AC-18a.\]

  - \[AC-18a.[01]\] configuration requirements are established for each type of wireless access;
  - \[AC-18a.[02]\] connection requirements are established for each type of wireless access;
  - \[AC-18a.[03]\] implementation guidance is established for each type of wireless access;

- \[AC-18b.\] each type of wireless access to the system is authorized prior to allowing such connections.

## Control guidance

Wireless technologies include microwave, packet radio (ultra-high frequency or very high frequency), 802.11x, and Bluetooth. Wireless networks use authentication protocols that provide authenticator protection and mutual authentication.

______________________________________________________________________

## What is the solution and how is it implemented?

<!-- For implementation status enter one of: implemented, partial, planned, alternative, not-applicable -->

<!-- Note that the list of rules under ### Rules: is read-only and changes will not be captured after assembly to JSON -->

### This System

The IPS-SRS-001 authorization boundary does not have any wireless networking components. The web application is hosted within AWS. It does not deploy, manage, or operate any wireless access points. Wireless networks used by end users to reach the system are outside the system's authorization boundary. Without any wireless capability inside the authorization boundary, there is no device for which this control would apply.

#### Implementation Status: not-applicable
